
The files in this directory are meant for use with "xfm", an X
file manager available for the Linux operating system. The source
code is available from Linux anonymous ftp sites. I have used
xfm-1.3.2 with the files included here. To use them, first
install "xfm", and run "xfm.install".  Then copy the dotxfm
directory to .xfm in your home directory. This overwrites the
default configuration files with the ones included here (but I
started with the defaults so you aren't losing much). Copy the
pixmap files into your /usr/X11/include/X11/pixmaps directory (or
other suitable location, check the apps-default/Xpm file).  Copy
the files in bin to a directory that is in your path, such as
/usr/bin or /usr/local/bin.  This includes the scripts "ncdisp",
"ncplot" and "runnc". These are used by "xfm" to pipe output from
"nc" to the graphical viewer "vid" or the text viewer "less".

The .xfm/magic file and the .xfm/xfmrc files have been modified
to recognize the NeuronC file types  .n (nc script file), .m
(function file), .r (text output file), as well as Montage file
types .dat, .sto, .cor. It is possible to run "nc" to view the
graphical output of a script file, to create a .pov file, and to
run "povray" (ray tracer) on the .pov file, all from the xfm
application manager.

These will also work with the "moxfm" file manager as well.
This is a motif-style manager that uses mostly the same
configuration files but is more flexible. 

To get the DOS menu to work, add these lines to your /etc/fstab
table:

/dev/fd0	/disk/a   msdos       noauto,user,exec,dev,suid 0 0
/dev/fd1	/disk/b   msdos       noauto,user,exec,dev,suid 0 0


xfm is available at:  

  ftp.x.org:/contrib/applications/xfm-1.3.2.tar.gz       source code

  sunsite.unc.edu                                        Linux binary
  ftp.cdrom.com
  ftp.pht.com 

moxfm is available from:

  http://ips105.desy.de:8765/~mai/moxfm


Rob Smith     Oct, 1995
